Data Engineering with Snowpark Pandas API QuickStart (#1417)
Snowflake-Labs/sfquickstarts: site/sfguides/src/data_engineering_piipelines_with_snowpark_pandas/data_engineering_pipelines_with_snowpark_pandas.md

author: Mats Stellwall
id: data_engineering_pipelines_with_snowpark_pandas
summary: This guide will provide step-by-step details for doing data engineering with Snowpark Pandas API
categories: Getting-Started
environments: web
status: Published 
feedback link: https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguides/issues
tags: Getting Started, Data Science, Data Engineering 

> # Snowpark Pandas API Data Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Data Engineering Pipeline with Snowpark Pandas
```

* A Snowflake account login with a role that has the ability to create database, schema and tables. If not, you will need to register for a free trial or use a different role.

### What You’ll Build 
A Customer profile table using the Snowpark Pandas API and a serverless task that will run the feature engineering on a schedule.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Setup The Snowflake Environment
Duration: 10

### Overview
This section covers cloning of the GitHub repository and creating the needed Snowflake objects (i.e role, warehouse, database, schema, etc..)

### Clone The Git Repository
The very first step is to clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas). This repository contains all the code you will need to successfully complete this QuickStart Guide.

Using HTTPS:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas.git
```

OR, using SSH:

```shell
git clone git@github.com:Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas.git
```

> You can also use the git integration feature of Snowflake Notebooks, in order to do that you need to fork the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas) to be allowed to commit changes. For instructions how to set up integration for your Snowflake account see ... and for using it with Snowflake Notebooks see ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the Git integration feature of Snowflake Notebooks, in order to do that you need to fork the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas) to be allowed to commit changes. For instructions how to set up Git integration for your Snowflake account see [here](https://docs.snowflake.com/developer-guide/git/git-setting-up) and for using it with Snowflake Notebooks see [this page](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight/notebooks-snowgit).
```

![Select Notebook File](assets/notebook_dialog.png)  

### Create From Repository

If you have forked the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas) and create a integration to it in Snowflake you can open the notebook directly from the git repository.

1. In the **Create Notebook from Repository** dialog click on **Select .ipynb file**  
![Create Notebook from Repository Dialog](assets/create_from_rep_start.png)  
2 Click on the repository integration you are using and select **Customer Profile Creation Pipeline.ipynb** and click **Select File**, if you do not see the file press **Fetch** to refresh with the latest changes from the repository  
![Select Notebook File from Repository](assets/select_file_from_rep.png)  
3. Name it **Customer Profile Creation Pipeline**, select **SNOW_PANDAS_DE_QS**, **NOTEBOOKS** for **Notebook location** and **SNOW_PANDAS_DE_QS_WH** for **Notebook warehouse** and click **Create**  
![Create Notebook from Repository Dialog](assets/create_from_rep_end.png)  

### Add Required Python Libraries

> Before you run the notebook you need to ad the libraries that it is using.
> 
> The notebook is depending on the following Python libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you run the notebook you need to add the following Python libraries:
```

> * snowflake-snowpark-python (version 1.17 or higher)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Removed since Snowpark comes pre-installed with every notebook.

* modin
* snowflake
* matplotlib
* seaborn

1. In the Notebook click on **Packages**  
2. Search for **modin** and select **modin** in the list  
![Modin search result](assets/modin_result.png)  
3. Do the same for **snowflake**, **matplotlib** and **seaborn**. When done you should have the same packages as the list below (the versions might differ)  
![Added packages](assets/added_packages.png)  

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Data Engineering With Snowpark Pandas
Duration: 30

> During this step you will learn how to use the Snowpark Pandas API to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this step you will learn how to use the Snowpark Pandas API to:
```

* Create datframe from a Snowflake table
* Aggregate data to create new features
* Join dataframes
* Save the result into a Snowflake table

> * Create a serverless task to schedule the feature engineering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a serverless task to schedule the feature engineering pipeline (Currently in Private Preview)
```

> ### Run The Code In The Notebook
> 
> Run each of the cells in the Notebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow along and run each of the cells in [the Notebook](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas/blob/main/Customer%20Profile%20Creation%20Pipeline.ipynb).
```

Within this Notebook, we will use Snowpark Pandas API to create DataFrames, join them, create new features and create a serverless task to schedule the feature engineering.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Conclusion And Resources
Duration: 4

> Congratulations, you have successfully completed this quickstart! Through this quickstart, we were able to showcase how you can use the Snowpark Pandas API to create DataFrames, join them, create new features , save the result to a Snowflake table and create a serverless task to schedule the feature engineering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations, you have successfully completed this quickstart! Through this quickstart, we were able to showcase how you can use the Snowpark Pandas API to create DataFrames, join them, create new features, save the result to a Snowflake table, and create a serverless task to schedule the data transformation pipeline.
```

### What we've covered

* Create datframe from a Snowflake table
* Aggregate data to create new features
* Join dataframes
* Save the result into a Snowflake table
* Create a serverless task to schedule the feature engineering

### Related Resources

* [Source Code on GitHub](https://github.com/Snowflake-Labs/sfguide-data-engineering-pipelines-with-snowpark-pandas)
* [Snowpark Pandas API Developer Guide](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowpark/python/snowpark-pandas)

> * [Getting Started with Snowpark pandas QuikStart](https://quickstarts.snowflake.com/guide/getting_started_with_snowpark_pandas/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Getting Started with Snowpark pandas Quickstart](https://quickstarts.snowflake.com/guide/getting_started_with_snowpark_pandas/index.html)
```
